DESCRIPTION
===========

DataVisualization is a JavaFX standalone system that uses VerticaConnection to create visual representations
of the data.

With DataVisualization you can:

- Set a time range to collect anylitics.
- See the number of tweets group by aggregate sentiment (neutral, negative or positive) in a pie chart.
- See the number of tweets from the top 15 sentiments in a pie chart.
- See how the average aggregate score evolved during the given time with a line chart.
- See the evolution of the number of tweets from the top 15 sentiments during the given time with a line chart.
- See all tweets that correspond to a given sentiment (aggregate or specific) or in a given time window.
  To do this, locate the data table on the left side of any chart, right click on a time window or sentiment cell
  and select "view tweets with..." to open a popup window with the related tweets.

SOURCE DESCRIPTION
==================

The system has two main src packages `com.lagunex.app` and `com.lagunex.charts`.
The first one defines the main window and the second one implements the chart panels and the popup

The main window and chart panels' UI are specified as FXML files located in `src/main/resources`. In these directories
you will also find properties files with localized texts (currently only in English).

REQUIREMENTS
============

This project depends on VerticaConnection to connect with the database. Therefore, the following system properties
must be passed to the application to run properly

`
vertica.hostname=you.database.hostname
vertica.database=database_name
vertica.username=database_username
vertica.password=your_password
`

You can pass these variables to the executable generated by `gradle installApp` using the JAVA_OPTS variable, e.g.

`
JAVA_OPTS="-Dvertica.hostname=192.168.1.17 -Dvertica.database=topcoder -Dvertica.username=dbadmin -Dvertica.password=password" \
DataVisualization/build/install/DataVisualization/bin/DataVisualization
`

This projected is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
